OpenADR initiative (#25)
trifectatechfoundation/trifectatech-website: content/initiatives/automated-demand-response.md

+++
title = "Automated Demand Reponse"
slug = "automated-demand-response"
template = "initiatives/initiative.html"

[extra]
funders = [
 "tweedegolf",   
 "elaadnl",
]

blogposts = [
]
+++

### Automated Demand Response

With the rise of renewable energy resources and ongoing electrification, automated demand response plays a crucial role in optimizing the use of our electricity grid. 

> This project is building a modern, open-source Rust implementation of OpenADR 3.0, the latest version of OpenADR, the automated demand response standard that's being developed by the [OpenADR Alliance](https://www.openadr.org/).

Author: ```suggestion
This project is building a modern, open-source implementation of OpenADR 3.0, the latest version of OpenADR, the automated demand response standard that's being developed by the [OpenADR Alliance](https://www.openadr.org/).
```

Written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/), our implementation is fast, lightweight, reliable, and can be used in many different environments. It will be an important building block for a multitude of digital products and services required for the further electrification of our energy systems and the energy transition.

### What We've Done

[Tweede golf](https://tweedegolf.nl/en) started development in June 2024 with initial funding from [ElaadNL](https://elaad.nl/en/), the Knowledge & Innovation center for the joint Dutch grid operators that researches and tests smart and sustainable charging of electric vehicles.

> To enable global collaboration and ensure neutral governance, in October 2024 the project became part of the [Linux Energy Foundation OpenLEADR](https://lfenergy.org/projects/openleadr/) project, that was already hosting an OpenADR 2.0b implementation written in Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable global collaboration and ensure neutral governance, the project became part of the [Linux Energy Foundation OpenLEADR](https://lfenergy.org/projects/openleadr/) project  in October 2024. OpenLEADR were already hosting an OpenADR 2.0b implementation written in Python.
```

The reponsitory for the OpenADR 3.0 Rust implementation is called [openleadr-rs](https://github.com/OpenLEADR/openleadr-rs).

### Current Status

> Currently (November 2024) the project is seeing its first external contributions and is almost ready to do a first field-test-ready release, for which we're seeking funding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently (November 2024) the project is seeing its first external contributions and is almost ready for a field-test-ready release, for which we're seeking funding.
```

### What's Next

After inital funding by ElaadNL and Tweede golf in 2024, the project is currently (November 2204) **seeking a total of EUR 40.000 in funding** for:

**In Dec 2024 / Jan 2025:**

> + Doing a first field-test-ready release 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ The first field-test-ready release 
```

**During 2025:**
+ Ongoing development and maintenance
+ Continued community building and contributor support

> + Additional releases when new (minor) versions of the OpenADR starndard are published

Author: ```suggestion
+ Additional releases when new (minor) versions of the OpenADR standard are published
```

> + Preparing for a first long term support release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Preparing for a long-term support release
```

> If you are interested in funding this work, please get in touch with us via <a href="mailto:donate@trifectatech.org">donate@trifectatech.org</a> and request the project's sponsorship prospectus.

Reviewer: What if we make this a direct download? (This is a suggestion for all projects that we have a prospectus for.)

Author: Maybe in the future, but for now we keep the prospectus private; for prospects only
